The definition of cloud-native has evolved a lot in the past few years. It has evolved from a specific definition of applications to software architecture to design patterns to even team, technology, and culture. It also has evolved from being cloud-based (distributed, less stateful) to strictly container based (stateless, distributed, self-healing, micro-services based) to the higher level of abstractions such as Serverless. According to the Cloud Native Computing Foundation’s (CNCF) definition, “cloud native” is a paradigm wherein organizations “build and run scalable applications in modern, dynamic environments such as public, private, and hybrid clouds” and is exemplified by tools such as “containers, service meshes, microservices, immutable infrastructure, and declarative APIs.”. The word ‘cloud-native’ may be a misnomer, it’s perfectly valid to have cloud-native architectures based on containers, service mesh even serverless deployed on on-prem data centers. Cloud-native is more of a mindset of how architecture should look like rather than the location in which it runs. 

This document will focus on the architecture and design patterns that define “cloud-native”.  
Following are some of the key principles of a cloud-native architecture:

## Infrastructure abstraction:
Cloud-native application architecture lets developers use a platform as a means for abstracting away from underlying infrastructure dependencies. Instead of configuring, patching, and maintaining operating systems, teams focus on their software. 

## Autonomous services:
Systems are built by orchestrating a set of distributed, autonomous services that collaborate to fulfil a set of functions either as part of a business module or platform service. These are packaged as lightweight containers that are custom deployed or managed by the cloud infrastructure and typically communicate via REST or specialized binary protocols.

## Automated event handling:
Cloud based infrastructures allow systems to take rule-based actions to take appropriate measures (scale up or down, recovery / restart) to mitigate business or systemic events.  

## Automated product lifecycle:
Due to the complex nature of cloud deployments, cloud native applications are heavily dependent upon Infrastructure as code process for integration, deployment and testing.  Multiple continuous integration/continuous delivery (CI/CD) pipelines may work in tandem to deploy and manage a cloud-native application.

## Utilize Managed services:
With increasing maturity in the cloud offerings, lately the industry has moved towards a higher utilization of managed services as compared to custom deployments or IaaS services which allows teams to focus on their product offerings while offloading the platform features to the experts.
