## PATTERN: BUILD STATELESS APPLICATIONS

### Rationale:
Stickiness typically caused by session affinity limits the application's ability to scale out.

### Solution:
User traffic (even within a session) should always be distributed across instances. This requires services should be designed to avoid session stickiness. Typically this is caused when applications store session state in memory. Make sure that any instance can handle any request.

**Some historical perspective:**
In the context of Web applications, stateful applications would maintain user session state in the server while the application data would be stored in a database. Initially the session state used to be stored locally due to which instance stickiness was a necessity .i.e. all requests within a login session had to be directed to the instance with the user session state which was managed typically at the load balancer using appropriate load balancing policies. This limited the ability of applications to scale and also was not as resilient as a node failure would terminate all ongoing sessions. To handle this limitation, application server vendors added the ability to externalize the session state into its own persistent storage such as database or a cache server. This removed the need for instance stickiness as any node in the cluster could service the user request as they would refer to the cache for checking session validity. In case of node failure, existing sessions could still be serviced as the session state would be available in cache. 
Nevertheless, this cluster was managed by the application server such as WebSphere, Weblogic etc. and was stateful in the sense that the cluster state need to be managed by some component, which was the central server administrator component. This was typically a very heavy handed solution for what essentially was a scheduler

**Rise of new class of technologies enables Stateless architecture**
The new wave of applications are now leaning towards a “client heavy” UI with APIs at server side which was facilitated by a rise of some key technologies and patterns:

**Javascript:** It is now possible to provide rich customer experiences in the browser by using native javascript and browser capabilities such as HTML5, CSS3 and enabled by JS frameworks such as React, Angular and Vuejs. This gave rise to new set of application design such as single page applications which removed the need for using a server side web framework such as php, spring mvc etc.

**JWT:** The problem of handling user session at server side was solved by using a JWT token which was similar to browser cookie in that it represented a user session and was sent back and forth between browser and server for the duration of the session. The key difference was that the JWT token was self-describing and contained basic attributes of the user and removed the need for maintaining state in the application server. In addition, the token was deemed secure as it could be verified at client and server side by checking its signature implemented by standard algorithms such as HMAC or RSA. So for a successful login, instead of a session being created in the server and being notified via a browser cookie, a Jwt token was created by server and sent in response. Client sends the token in subsequent requests and the server can verify the token before proceeding with the business logic. This enabled cluster nodes to be completely stateless as the Jwt token maintained the session state. Due to this, there was no need for application server clusters as there was essentially no cluster to maintain. This was further boosted by another class of technologies called as containers.

**docker:** The need for independent cluster nodes coincided with the rise of docker, an open source technology for automating the deployment of apps as independent, portable and self-sufficient containers that can run virtually anywhere.  It was now possible to bundle an application with all its dependencies including OS into a lightweight package that could run in bare metal server, VM or any cloud instance.

**FaaS:** Due the simplification in the application state management and relative complexity in using cluster orchestrators, cloud vendors provided so-called serverless functions described earlier that promised to provide a fully managed stack for deploying stateless applications. 

**Benefits Of Stateless applications**
*	Removes the overhead to create/use sessions.
*	Scales horizontally needed for modern user’s needs.
*	New instances of an application added/removed on demand.
*	It allows consistency across various applications.
*	Statelessness makes an application more comfortable to work with and maintainable.
(Insights, 2018)

[Next - PATTERN: USE API GATEWAY FOR FRONT-END CHANNELS](https://github.com/srikanthkotekar/ideasworthsharing/blob/master/Building-Modern-Cloud-Native-Apps/5.2%20PATTERN:%20USE%20API%20GATEWAY%20FOR%20FRONT-END%20CHANNELS.md)
