### PATTERN: PROTECT USING BULKHEAD ###

## Rationale
A cloud-based application may include multiple services, with each service having one or more consumers. Excessive load or failure in a service will impact all consumers of the service.

Moreover, a consumer may send requests to multiple services simultaneously, using resources for each request. When the consumer sends a request to a service that is misconfigured or not responding, the resources used by the client's request may not be freed in a timely manner. As requests to the service continue, those resources may be exhausted. For example, the client's connection pool may be exhausted. At that point, requests by the consumer to other services are impacted. Eventually the consumer can no longer send requests to other services, not just the original unresponsive service.

The same issue of resource exhaustion affects services with multiple consumers. A large number of requests originating from one client may exhaust available resources in the service. Other consumers are no longer able to consume the service, causing a cascading failure effect.

## Solution
Partition service instances into different groups, based on consumer load and availability requirements. This design helps to isolate failures and sustain service functionality for some consumers, even during a failure.

A consumer can also partition resources, to ensure that resources used to call one service don't affect the resources used to call another service. For example, a consumer that calls multiple services may be assigned a connection pool for each service. If a service begins to fail, it only affects the connection pool assigned for that service, allowing the consumer to continue using the other services.
Use this pattern to:
*	Isolate resources used to consume a set of backend services, especially if the application can provide some level of functionality even when one of the services is not responding.
*	Isolate critical consumers from standard consumers.
*	Protect the application from cascading failures.

[Next - PATTERN: IMPLEMENT CIRCUIT BREAKER](https://github.com/srikanthkotekar/ideasworthsharing/blob/master/Building-Modern-Cloud-Native-Apps/5.11%20PATTERN:%20IMPLEMENT%20CIRCUIT%20BREAKER.md)
