### PATTERN: ADD THROTTLING CAPABILITIY ###

## Rationale
The load on a cloud application typically varies over time based on the number of active users or the types of activities they are performing. There might also be sudden and unanticipated bursts in activity. If the processing requirements of the system exceed the capacity of the resources that are available, it'll suffer from poor performance and can even fail.

## Solution
Allow applications to use resources only up to a limit, and then throttle them when this limit is reached. The system should monitor how it's using resources so that, when usage exceeds the threshold, it can throttle requests from one or more users. This will enable the system to continue functioning and meet any service level agreements (SLAs) that are in place. Following are some of the strategies:
*	Rejecting requests from an individual user who's already accessed system APIs more than n times per second over a given period of time.
*	Using load leveling to smooth the volume of activity for e.g. instead of exposing real-time Apis over http or web socket, consume inputs via stream processing engines such as Kafka, Kinesis or queues such as RabbitMQ, SQS, SNS etc.
*	Deferring operations being performed on behalf of lower priority applications or tenants. These operations can be suspended or limited, with an exception generated to inform the tenant that the system is busy and that the operation should be retried later.

[Next - PATTERN: CAPTURE ALL RELEVANT PERFORMANCE METRICS](https://github.com/srikanthkotekar/ideasworthsharing/blob/master/Building-Modern-Cloud-Native-Apps/5.13%20PATTERN:%20CAPTURE%20ALL%20RELEVANT%20PERFORMANCE%20METRICS.md)

[Back to Pattern catalog](https://github.com/srikanthkotekar/ideasworthsharing/blob/master/Building-Modern-Cloud-Native-Apps/5.%20Cloud-Native%20Application%20Patterns.md)
