## PATTERN: USE API GATEWAY FOR FRONT-END CHANNELS ##

## Rationale: ##
*	Stateless applications will result in compute being deployed in a docker based environment such as k8s typically combined with serverless functions. We need a common integration or proxy layer to access the same without front-end channels needing to know about the target.  
*	The granularity of APIs provided by backends may differ than what a client needs. Microservices typically provide fine-grained APIs, which means that clients need to interact with multiple services. For example, to display an account overview, data may need to be fetched data from customer, loan and credit card services
*	Different clients need different data. For example, the desktop browser version of a product details page desktop is typically more elaborate then the mobile version.
*	Due to the transient nature of deployment where servers / VMs or docker instances can be “recycled” based on real-time performance, the number of service instances and their locations (host+port) changes dynamically
*	Partitioning into services can change over time and should be hidden from clients

## Solution: ## 
Use API Gateway as a common intermediary for different types of clients: web / mobile front end for an application or integration with internal or partner systems. This is also called the backend-for-frontend pattern. API Gateways provide the following key capabilities: 
* Security: Secure and mediate the traffic between clients and backends. In addition to platform security features such as API key verification and access control (whitelisting or blacklisting), gateways also support application authentication protocols such as OAuth2, OIDC, Bearer Token, Mutual TLS etc. 
* Lifecycle management: Manage the process of designing, developing, publishing, deploying, and versioning APIs. In addition to above features, they also provide a self-service module aka developer portal which are used by applications to onboard anonymous users for public APIs. 
*	Analytics: provide operational and business insights. While most products provide operational metrics such as API usage, performance metrics like latency, errors, cache hits etc, the business parameters like top Apis, top products, trend analysis, anomaly detection etc are only provided by few of the premium products.  
*	Cross-cutting concerns such as Logging, caching, rate limiting, billing etc. can be handled by a central component instead of being implemented in each service

Choice of technology can be broadly classified into follows:

**Native Cloud offerings** - Advantages of using cloud native Api gateways such as AWS Api gateway or Azure Api gateway are its tight integration with its ecosystem. For e.g. AWS Api gateway support WAF and can easily integrate with serverless lambda function, Kinesis, DynamoDB or an Http endpoint. In addition, there is the advantage of leveraging IAM for providing authentication without much overhead. The major downside is vendor lock-in, but the advantages of a native solution combined with a complete feature set make this a compelling option. 

**Open source** - This can be further categorized into following 2 types:

1.	Generic Micro services Api gateways such as Kong (https://github.com/Kong/kong ) or Traefik (https://traefik.io/ ). These are full-featured, open source Api gateways and are built ground up for cloud native deployments as they can be used for both north-south (client apps to backend services) and east-west (between services) traffic with low-latency, tracing, resiliency patterns such as circuit breakers, retry, integration with APM tools etc. They integrate well with k8s as both Kong and traefik can be used as a k8s ingress controller. Kong can also be integrated with cloud native services such as lambda using it’s plugin ecosystem.
2.	k8s-native Api gateway such as internal k8s Ingress controller or third party gateways such as Ambassador (https://www.getambassador.io/  ) or Gloo (https://github.com/solo-io/gloo ). These are optimized for k8s deployments but can also integrate with legacy apps and serverless functions such as AWS lambda, knative, Google functions etc. These could be used along with cloud vendor managed Api gateway where AWS Api gateway for e.g. can be used for exposing Apis to external apps which forwards traffic to internal gateway such as Gloo using path-based routing to k8s pods. 

**Traditional API Management systems** –These are traditional or legacy offerings that are typically focused on providing Api mgmt. solutions for north-south traffic and are not generally optimized for micro services. They provide the entire gamut of features including security, developer portal, analytics, multi-cloud support, SaaS and on-prem options but come with associated cost and management effort if opted for the on-prem installation. There are many offerings in this space, most notably, Apigee, IBM Api Connect, 3Scale, WS02 among others. 

[Next - PATTERN: LEVERAGE FUNCTION AS A SERVICE](https://github.com/srikanthkotekar/ideasworthsharing/blob/master/Building-Modern-Cloud-Native-Apps/5.3%20PATTERN:%20LEVERAGE%20FUNCTION%20AS%20A%20SERVICE.md)
