## 4.1.5	PATTERN: OUTSOURCE SECURITY OF MICRO SERVICES ##

### Rationale
Modern applications are typically built as autonomous and independent micro services, potentially using different languages and deployment runtime. Due to this setup, there is no single point of control where requests can be authenticated. Also as services could be written in different languages, it is difficult to add uniformity and manage updates in the security implementation. A distributed architecture such as container clusters also ends up increasing the surface area for attacks due to differences in container runtime, base images, nodes etc. 
It is imperative that application security is implemented outside the applications itself and delegated to an external service provider.

### Solution
Instead of session based authentication, use client-token such as JWT token based authentication. Services must be secured at following two levels: 

**Edge security**- Authenticate end user traffic such as between mobile / web apps and applications.
Use Api Gateway as the security intermediary between consumers and micro services. Use OAuth2 protocol with self-contained Id and Access token using JWT with Api gateway acting as the gate keeper that interacts with the Identity provider and then enforces the policy. Following are broad technology choices available for Identity-As-a-Service (IdaaS):

*	**Native cloud offerings** such as AWS Cognito or Azure Active Directory B2C – While these are not full-featured Identity management systems, the key advantage of using these offerings are its native integration within the vendor ecosystem. For e.g. Cognito as a native authorizer for Api gateway authentication, Allowing only authenticated users to write to DynamoDB table etc. It can also be configured to use social logins or other security platform as 3rd party IdP service
for authentication. In addition to the fast speed of implementation, the native solution is cheaper as compared to dedicated offerings. Downside is feature set is limited in that they do not provide a self-service application portal
*	**Dedicated IdPaas providers such as Okta, Ping, Auth0 – In addition to customer identity, they also provide complete set of enterprise features such as SSO for employees and partners and securing on-prem, cloud infrastructure and APis. These solutions are costly but appropriate for managing security for portals across different technology stack and authentication protocols.
*	**Hybrid solution – Since the native offerings provide OAuth2 and Open Id Connect protocol as a standard interface, it is possible to use federated identity solution such as such as Okta or Auth0 acting as the IdP. In this setup, Cognito will act as the interface to the applications and delegate the user authentication and management to the IdP.

**Service-to-service security** – Share user context securely and authenticate and authorize requests between services within the cluster.

For application deployed in container clusters, use a service mesh such as Istio or linkerd which uses the sidecar approach for implementing authentication and authorization. A side car is a container that sits along with application containers that intercepts all incoming request to the applications. Both containers are packaged in what is called as Pods in k8s hence share the same network namespace.

For authentication, recommended approach is to enable JWT validation along with mutual TLS in the side car. mTLS should be enabled for requests between Ingress and Pods and between pods. The side car will take care of activities such as certificate management for mTLS, public key retrieval, JWT token issuance and validation.

For authorization, recommended approach is to enable Role based Access Control (RBAC) policies along with mTLS in the side car. The RBAC typically provide service access for generic service roles assigned in k8s or can be tied in with claims present in the JWT token. 

Another architectural choice is to delegate authentication to the side car but implement custom authorization logic that for e.g. uses a database. This is useful in cases where a JWT claim may not contain sufficient information for a policy decision.  

Advantage of using service mesh is that cross-cutting concerns such as mTLS authentication, JWT validation and RBAC are delegated to the mesh before requests are forwarded to the applications. 
(Zach Jory, Aspen Mesh, 2019)
