## PATTERN: EXTERNALIZE CONFIGURATION ##

### Rationale
An application is typically dependent upon other entities for deployment, testing, application services such as databases and 3rd party applications. For e.g.
*	Before deployment into Production, an application has to go through multiple environments such as Dev, QA, Test, Performance, Pre-prod etc.
*	Each environment will have different endpoints for dependent applications and application services such as databases with specific credentials.  
*	Technical parameters such as Timeout values, Table names, Cache invalidations etc. that could differ based on the deployed environment
*	Sensitive information such as passwords or other secrets that must be configurable and secure 

How to ensure that applications can run without modifications independent of the external environment? Traditional choices to store these parameters externally were local property files or Database. Property files do manage to externalize config from code but do not allow sharing of configurations across multiple instances leading to duplication. Database managed configs can quickly get complex as additional work needs to be done for adding history, audit, caching etc. 

### Solution
To enable redundancy and location independence, application configurations must be externalized. Multiple solutions are possible that are provided by specific technology stack used.
*	Services deployed in AWS lambda can depend upon lambda environment variables to pass operational parameters to the functions. 
*	Container technologies such as docker or containerd allow passing environment variables on startup. Deployed applications can then access these parameters passed as OS environment variables, property files or command line arguments. Most languages such as Go, Spring Boot provide support to access environment variables. Spring Boot specifically provides the spring cloud config module that can access and cache parameters from Http access to Git or file based configurations.
*	While above solutions are application managed, a preferred and cloud native solution is to store configs in managed secret store provided by the cloud provider. AWS provides AWS Parameter Store and Secrets manager that are used to store configs including secrets with encryption using key management service. In addition, user and resource access can be controlled using appropriate IAM policies.
