### PATTERN: CACHE AT ALL LEVELS ###

## Rationale
While caching has been an integral aspect of most traditional applications, a cloud infrastructure provides new capabilities that are difficult to implement in on-premise systems. These are in form of managed services for traditional software such as CDNs but also new services that claim to move computation closer to end user. 

## Solution
*	Use the cloud vendor edge infrastructure such as AWS lambda@edge for running custom code as close to your users as possible. These can also be used for user authentication & authorization, gathering user analytics, SEO and to present personalized content. While technically this cannot be termed as a “cache”, it does enable transferring the heavy lifting closer to the users and away from the centralized compute which can otherwise potentially become a bottleneck.
*	Use a CDN to cache static content such as images, HTML, CSS and multi-lingual text messages for your mobile and web apps. While CDNs have been in use in traditional applications for years, cloud providers provide managed CDNs that are easy to configure and have deep integration within their ecosystem. For e.g. AWS CloudFront seamlessly integrates with AWS Shield for DDoS mitigation, AWS WAF for application firewall, Amazon S3 for object storage, Elastic Load Balancing or Amazon EC2 as origins for your applications and lambda@Edge. 
*	Use an in-memory, distributed caching service in the backend for offloading work from origin such as caching relatively static data from database, access tokens from identity provider etc. Most vendors provide support for Redis and memcached
*	Enable in-memory cache at database level such as AWS DynamoDB Accelerator (AWS) that can deliver upto 10x performance improvement and latency in microseconds. DAX will take care of cache invalidation which needs to be managed by application in case you use a dedicated caching service such as Redis.

